>> Steve Kinney: What did we just do?
We walked, again,
there are a lot more methods aside.
I think that we're probably
at our capacity for
walking through method by method.
But the important part is now we have
at least one very important tool for
enforcing that type
safety wherever we are,
especially if you're in the case
where it's a node back end and
your client-side app, you can share
these schemas in the same place.
Now you can both parse the request
body with the same thing
doing the form validation.
For the response coming back from the API,
you can make sure when it came out of
the database, that it is what it should
be before you send it as the response.
And then when it gets the browser, use
the same schema to make sure that it is
the thing you think it is, and
even if you didn't share the types,
Zod is going to infer the types for
you, you can do that z.infer.
But also they will be of that type,
you will get all the auto complete,
you will get all the IntelliSense.
You can use these same things
all over the place, so
you can validate the things are what
you think they are on the server side.
You can validate that things are what
you think they are on the client site.
You can validate it before and after it
goes in and out of the database, right?
Before you write it to the file system
if you're saving JSON files, or
using Mongo or something like that, right?
You can use the same schemas literally
everywhere, either if you didn't
even share the types, you can go ahead and
infer the types out of it.
And, like I said before, when we looked
at the Zod documentation before,
right, obviously Zod itself
is a set of it's JavaScript,
right, so
it's not easy to serialize, right?
And just put into a JSON file.
But you know what is, I don't know
why I'm live scrolling in front of
y'all a JSON schema is
just a JavaScript object.
So you could in either a shared repo,
or, honestly,
you could host it somewhere or
in either the server repo or
the client repo turn your Zod
schemas into JSON schema.
And just have a file you can pull down and
get those types on both the client,
and the server, and the data layer, right?
You can just serialize them
into a JSON schema object.
You can either turn back into Zod or
what have you.
We'll also kind of do this with
swagger docs later as well.
And so, now we have the first
piece of our toolkit for
giving ourselves type safety across our
entire stack, which is the ability to kind
of enforce the same schemas and same
types wherever JavaScript is sold, right?
Obviously, if you're using other
languages, the Zod stuff won't work,
but if you serialize it down to the JSON
schema, then you will go ahead and
have the ability to turn that into Go,
Python, Ruby, what have you.
The other thing that I promised to answer,
which is what happens if you
start out with the type.
And I opened that page earlier,
so let's say I had the type,
and I'm trying to write a Zod
schema that matches that type.
There might be a better way to do it, this
is my trick that I think that I invented,
unclear if I actually invited it,
or if other people use it, or
if there's a better way to do it.
But this is what I do, which is,
you can write the schema and
then you can say satisfies with
modern versions of Typescript,
I think Typescript 5 and later, 4?
I don't know, when satisfies came out.
But in any version of Typescript
in the last four years or
something like that,
you should be aware you can say, hey, and
it satisfies and
you have to use this Zod type, that type.
You'll get a red squiggly lines
of sadness if you don't match it,
let me prove that to you.
>> Steve Kinney: Did I not copy the test?
I gotta copy all the things.
You gotta copy and paste from your
own notes, you gotta do it all.
All right, so right now it's good,
it works, if for some reason,
I don't know, I added or
let's change this to be a string.
>> Steve Kinney: Right now
the typescript won't compile.
So you can be confident that
whatever schema you came up, again,
cuz if we don't trust the types
that we wrote on a fetch,
we shouldn't trust it for
making our schemas either.
But at this point, Typescript and
Zod will work together to ensure that you
did the good thing and
you did the right thing.
And so, that's how I do it
when I have the types, but
I don't have the schemas, right?
Cuz the schemas are useful even if
you're never generating types on it,
cuz I can now say, hey,
did I get the thing back from the API that
I thought I was supposed to get, right?
Did I, or if it's going to be one or
two different things,
you can use that safe parse, right?
And have a conditional, right?
And then cast it that way as well and be
like, this could be one of three different
things, I'll use schemas a lot of times,
I won't use the try catch version.
I'll use the safe parse version to say,
if is this thing,
if is that thing, and so on and so forth.
So it's super useful for that as well.
So a lot of times, I'll make schemas
reverse engineered from types I
already have and
trust because I want to use it.
Cuz I don't wanna write those like gnarly
type guards that you saw earlier, right?
Cuz [LAUGH] my code base is open source,
you can find my sins.
There are some egregious
ones that I have done.
And yes, I did in the year 2021, and
I have not refactored them yet,
I will do it, I promise you.